Source: https://www.baruch.cuny.edu/advisement/ready-set-register/

Ready, Set, Register! - Baruch College

 
 

 

Skip to content

        Department Links        

About Us

Meet with an Academic Advisor

Academic Tools & Resources

Academic & Faculty Advising Directory

Appeals & Dismissals

DegreeWorks

Degree Maps

Faculty Advisors

Forms

Registration Resources

Student Success Roadmap

2+2 Transfer Degree Maps

Transfer Student Success Roadmap

Ready, Set, Register!

Dean’s Scholars

New Student Advisement

New Freshman Advising

New Transfer Advising

FYS 1000 Assignment

Ready, Set, Register! 

Summer 2026 Registration Begins: 
March 23rd 2026

Fall 2026 Registration Begins: 
April 13th 2026

Ready, Set, Register activities are designed to prepare you for advisement and registration for the next session and/or semester and beyond. You can work through these exercises at any time, whether or not it is officially Ready, Set, Register Week. These activities are designed to ensure you are taking the right courses and asking the right questions to stay on the path to graduation and achieving your future goals.

Keep reading to learn more.

Activities for Course Registration

                        ACTIVITY 1: Resolve Your Holds!                    

Any Baruch-related holds will be viewable in your CUNYfirst Student Center.

If you have no holds, skip this activity.

To view:

Click Tasks and Holds

Click details to view details about the holds.

For more information, contact the Baruch College office that placed the hold. To find a specific department, use the search bar on the 
Baruch College website
.

Note
: Holds from CUNY schools outside of Baruch 
do not
 impact registration at Baruch, 
except Bursar Holds
. 
All Bursar Holds
 and/or any Holds from Baruch should be addressed immediately to avoid a delay in your registration.

Log into CUNYfirst

                        ACTIVITY 2: Review Your Credit Totals!                    

To graduate on time, register for 
15-16
 credits per semester.

How to Read Your DegreeWorks Audit

Credits Required:
 Minimum number of credits you need to complete your degree. You may need more than this number.

Credits Applied:
 Total number of credits earned 
+
 Total number of credits in progress

Credits Needed:
 Number of credits needed 
AFTER
 your current semester

 

                        ACTIVITY 3: Review Your Degree Requirements!                    

Review your major requirements:

Zicklin School of Business

Weissman School of Arts & Sciences

Marxe School of Public & International Affairs
 (BSPA)

Review Baruch College’s Undergraduate 
Bulletin/Catalog

Search for courses and take note of prerequisites.

Review your 
Degree Works Audit
 to determine which requirements have been satisfied and which are still needed.

Log into Degree Works

                        ACTIVITY 4: Prepare to Meet with an Academic Advisor!                    

Things to Know

Meeting with an Academic Advisor is 
NOT
 required to register for courses.

DO NOT
 wait for a meeting with an academic advisor to begin registering for courses. Register for courses as soon as your enrollment date and time arrives.

Academic Advisors cannot register for classes on a student’s behalf, waive prerequisites, or enroll students into closed courses.

Review Your Notes

If you’ve met with a Peer or Academic Advisor before, you can review your appointment notes on Navigate. 
Click here
 to see how.

First Year Students
 – Review your 2-3 Semester Plan and/or drop-in or schedule an appointment with a Peer Advisor.

Transfers & Continuing Students
– If needed, schedule an appointment with an Academic Advisor on Navigate. 
Click here
 for some tips on obtaining an appointment.

All Students
 – Visit the 
Baruch One Stop Shop
 to meet with an Academic Advisor, Financial Aid Counselor, and more. 
No appointment needed.

Log into Navigate

The BOSS

                        ACTIVITY 5: Find Your Enrollment Date & Time!                    

Your Enrollment Date/Time will be viewable in your CUNYfirst Student Center. It is the date and time in which you may begin registering for courses. 

You will have two Enrollment Dates this year. One for summer courses and one for fall courses. Please take note of when you can register for each term.

To view:

Click Course Planning and Enrollment > Enrollment Dates

Click details to see the exact date/time you may begin registering for classes.

Log into CUNYfirst

                        ACTIVITY 6: Register & Lock In Your Schedule!                    

Register for classes through CUNY Schedule Builder. Schedule Builder is a real-time class scheduling tool that enables you to plan and register for courses that meet your schedules and other needs.

Click 
here
 to download Schedule Builder instructions.

Register for Classes

                Registration Resources                

Academic Appeals

Academic Calendar

Apply for Graduation

Business Courses Enrollment Criteria

Business Course Permission for WSAS Majors

Pre-Requisite Enrollment Permission for Winter/Summer

4000-Level Course Criteria

MGT 4999 Criteria

ACC 4100 + 5400 Permission

Graduating Senior Course Request

Campus Resources

Course Modalities/Mode of Instruction

Credit Overload

CUNYfirst

FACTS

DegreeWorks

ePermit

Liberal Art Minors

Major, Minor, Capstone Forms

Navigate

Registration Dates & Deadlines

Global Class Search

Re-Entry

TAP & Excelsior

Repeating A Course

T-Rex Transfer Explorer

Tuition

Waitlists

                Need Assistance?                

The BOSS

MSPIA

Weissman

Zicklin

Undergraduate Advisement

Undergraduate Advisement

55 Lexington Avenue, B 5-215

646-312-4260
 

academic.advisement@baruch.cuny.edu
 

Instagram
 
 

Change Contrast

Change Contrast

Standard Contrast

High Contrast