Source: https://www.baruch.cuny.edu/new-student-programs/first-year-student-orientation/first-year-course-scheduling/

First Year Course Scheduling - Baruch College

 
 

 

Skip to content

        Department Links        

Home

New Student Orientation

New Student Onboarding Guide

First Year Course Scheduling

First-Year Students

Transfer Students

Fall Student Convocation

Join Our Team

Leadership Team

First Year Course Scheduling 

First-year schedules are designed to ensure that all incoming students begin their first semester with a full-time schedule of required courses. The block program helps students stay on track for their intended major and make timely progress toward graduation.

When creating your first-semester schedule, we consider several factors, including your intended major, any incoming transfer or AP credits, your Math and English placements, and the information you provide on the Orientation Registration Form.

Block schedules typically include Math and English courses based on your placement, a selection of Pathways: Flexible Core classes, and occasionally courses required for major eligibility. For more information, review the 
Pathways Curriculum
 and Zicklin School of Business 
Eligibility Requirements
 pages.

First-year students should plan to be available between 7:50 am and 5:30 pm for classes. Evening schedules and reduced course loads (fewer than 12 credits) may be available upon request.

Register for your Orientation date to secure your course schedule! 

Register for an Orientation date through your 
Admitted Student Portal
 once your commitment deposit has been received or waived and your Math and English placements have been determined.

Be sure to complete any required Math or English placement exams as soon as possible so we can begin preparing your schedule.

Frequently Asked Questions

                        When do I get to pick my own classes?                    

Incoming first year students will pick their own classes for their second semester at Baruch.

                        How can I request a change to my first semester schedule?                    

Changes to block programs are made to accommodate incoming credit, placement changes, or as religious accommodation.  Email us at 
Orientation@baruch.cuny.edu
 to request a change to your schedule.

Note:

Schedule changes are not guaranteed.

All requests are reviewed on a case-by-case basis.  Our goal is for every student to feel confident about their first semester schedule; however, 
we are unable to accommodate individual preferences for specific courses, days or times, or remove breaks between classes.  

Schedule change previews are not available
.

We will do our best to accommodate an approved change request, but we cannot create a revised schedule for you to preview or approve in advance.

Changes are final. 

Once a schedule change has been made, it cannot be reversed or changed back to your original schedule.

                        Why aren't business classes included in my first semester schedule?                    

The first semester course schedules include math, English, First-Year Seminar, and a selection of required Pathways courses.  Most students will begin to take business classes in their second semester at Baruch.  Review the 
Degree Maps
 to get a better understanding of what a four-year plan in your intended major may look like.

                        Can I request online classes for my first semester?                    

First-year students should plan to take in-person classes during their first semester.  This helps you build connections, learn your way around campus, and adjust to college expectations.  Online classes are not offered by request as part of the first-semester block schedule.

After your first semester, students register on their own and can explore available class formats, including online options.

                        What about my AP or IB and College Now credit?                    

First semester course schedules are designed around any incoming credit.  View your incoming credit in CUNYfirst by clicking into your Student Center and view your Transfer Credit Report. If there is a conflict between your course schedule and any posted transfer credit, please email us at 
Orientation@baruch.cuny.edu
.

If your credits are not posted in CUNYfirst, please contact the Undergraduate Admissions Office at 
FreshmanCreditEvaluation@baruch.cuny.edu
. Include the following in your email: your name, CUNYfrst empl ID number or date of birth, and the name of the institution where the courses were completed.

                        How do I submit my AP or IB scores and College Now transcripts?                    

Submit all transcripts listing college coursework, including Advanced Placement and International Baccalaureate exam scores to the Admissions team as soon as possible. CUNY transcripts, including College Now, do not need to be submitted. Click here to view Baruch’s
 AP course equivalents
.

Contact the Undergraduate Admissions Office at 
FreshmanCreditEvaluation@baruch.cuny.edu
.  Include the following in your email: your name, CUNYfrst empl ID number or date of birth, and the name of the institution where the courses were completed.

                        How do I check if my incoming credits have been evaluated?                    

Log into your CUNYfirst Student Center, navigate to the Course Planning and Enrollment section and click View Transfer Credit Report to view your incoming credits.

View the 
Transfer Credit Report Manual
 for more information about how to read your Transfer Credit Report.

New Student Programs

Newman Vertical Campus, Room 5-205

(646) 312-4274
 

NSP@baruch.cuny.edu
 

Instagram
 
 

Change Contrast

Change Contrast

Standard Contrast

High Contrast