Source: https://enrollmentmanagement.baruch.cuny.edu/registrar/frequently-asked-questions/

Frequently Asked Questions - Enrollment Management	
 

Skip to content

        Department Links        

About Us

Contact Us

Frequently Asked Questions

Academic Calendar

Archived Academic Calendars

Schedule of Classes

Bulletins

ePermit

Students

Graduation and Diplomas

FERPA

Final Exams

Pathways

Reconnect

Re-entry

Registration Dates and Deadlines

Three Repeat Policy

Transcript Request

Veteran Affairs

Faculty and Staff

Chancellor’s Report

Grade Change

Grade Submission

Verification of Enrollment

Forms

Frequently Asked Questions 

                        Mailing Address                    

Mailing Address:

Office of the Registrar

Baruch College /CUNY

151 E. 25th Street, Box H-0850

New York, NY 10010

                        Registrar Office Hours                    

Monday 9:00am – 5:00pm

Tuesday 11:30am – 5:00pm

Wednesday 9:00am – 5:00pm

Thursday 9:00am – 5:00pm

Friday 9:00am – 5:00pm

                        Registrar's office telephone number                    

646-312-1150

                        Registrar's Office fax number                    

Registrar’s office fax number: 646-312-1151

                        CUNYfirst Self Service                    

 
 

How to search/register/validate/swap a course?

How to view course history?

How to pay tuition and fees? 

                        What is the Degree Works Audit (DWA)?                    

The Degree Works Audit (DWA) is a computerized program that displays your academic information based on the college’s requirements found in the Baruch Bulletin. The DWA enables you to track your academic progress towards a degree. The DWA provides information on how each requirement was satisfied and which courses can be taken to complete your remaining requirements.

 

                        Is my Degree Works Audit the same as my Academic Transcript?                    

The Degree Works Audit (DWA) is an unofficial advisement tool. It is not an Academic Transcript.

                        How can I get the most out of my Degree Works Audit?                    

You should always review your degree progress report prior to meeting with an advisor, preparing any questions you may have regarding your requirements.

                        Who can help me understand the DWA?                    

 
 

Process and print out your audit and see your respective undergraduate academic advisor or graduate academic advisor.

Undergraduate Academic Advisors

Center for Academic Advisement, NVC: 5-215, (646) 312-4260

Graduate Advisors

Zicklin School of Business, MS Programs, NVC 13-221, 646-312-3140

Zicklin School of Business, MBA Programs, NVC 13-280, 646-312-3132

Marxe School of Public & International Affairs, 135 East 22nd Street, Suite 1005, 646-660-6757

                        Can the DWA help me decide which courses(s) I should take next semester?                    

 
 

The audit shows both your completed and incomplete coursework for your degree. To learn more about the courses and confirm whether you have met the prerequisites, click on the underlined course and you will be linked to the Schedule of Classes. From there you can click on the course title to see a description and the prerequisites for the course.

                        What do different sections of my Degree Works audit represent?                    

The different sections of your audit shows how your courses are being applied to your over all degree requirements–i.e., major courses, minor courses, and electives.

NOTE: “Electives not allowed” are still counted towards your degree and total credit count and GPA. Any courses that exceed the number of “Elective classes allowed” or do not apply to any requirement, will be placed in this section.

                        How do I file for graduation?                    

To file for graduation, please fill out 
Application for Graduation
 form and submit to Registrar’s office.

                        When should I file for graduation?                    

 
 

Deadlines for submission are as follows:

Graduation Term

Deadline

Fall
 (Degree Awarded January 1)

September 15

Winter/Spring
 (Degree Awarded June 1)

February 15

Summer
 (Degree Awarded September 1)

June 15

                        Can I get a letter verifying that I graduated?                    

After your degree is posted on your transcript, you will be able to obtain a letter from the Registrar’s office confirming your degree.

                        If I participate in Commencement, have I earned my degree?                    

 
 

No. Commencement is held before degree auditors can determine if Spring and Summer candidates have fulfilled their final requirements. Participating in the ceremony is not a guarantee of graduation.

For more information, see 
Application for Graduation

                        Can I have my transcript held until the degree is posted?                    

If you want your transcript request to be held until the degree is posted, be sure to specify that when making your request. All obligations, whether academic or financial, must be cleared before your records will be released

                        What is ePermit?                    

ePermit is CUNY’s online application to obtain permission to register and attend classes at another CUNY college. Please note that an ePermit does NOT automatically register a student for a course nor doe s issuance of an epermit guarantee enrollment at the host college. Students who apply for an ePermit are taking a chance. No seats are guaranteed at Baruch College or at any other CUNY host college. Please visit our 
epermit site
 for more information.

                        How do i request a copy of my transcript?                    

Before requesting transcripts, please be certain that you do not have any holds that will prevent the processing of your request. Transcripts may be requested online, by mail, and in person. Student copies are available through CunyFirst Student Service Center.

Note: an official transcript is one that will be submitted to a third party (e.g., another school, a job). Unofficial transcripts should be used for advising purposes. If you receive and open a transcript, it cannot be considered “official” for the purpose stated above.

Visit the 
Transcript Request page
 for more information.

For transcript questions, send an e-mail to 
transcripts@baruch.cuny.edu
. Please make sure to include your name and 8-digit Emplid number in all communications.

                        How can I obtain an official enrollment verification letter to verify my enrollment?                    

Go to 
Enrollment Verification
 to submit your request.

                        How do I change my address?                    

 
 

Complete the 
personal data change request form
  available on the website and also in the Registrar’s office. Submit the form to the Registrar’s Office in person, by postal mail, or by using the 
CUNYfirst Document Upload
 feature. You must date and sign this form.

** Post Office box numbers are not acceptable**

                        How do I change my name?                    

 
 

Complete the 
Personal Data Change Form
 available on the web site and also in the Registrar’s office. Submit the form to the Registrar’s Office in person, by postal mail, or by using the 
CUNYfirst Document Upload
 feature along with the following documentation:

Naturalization papers (certificate and court order)

A certified copy of a court order authorizing the change of name

A copy of the marriage certificate (if applicable)

A copy of a birth certificate

                        How do I change my ID/ social security number?                    

Complete the 
Personal Data Change Form
 available on the web site and also in the Registrar’s office. Submit the form to the Registrar’s Office in person, by postal mail, or by using the 
CUNYfirst Document Upload
 feature along with a copy of your social security card.

                        How many credits must I be enrolled in to meet TAP eligibility?                    

 
 

NYS Higher Education Services Corporation (HESC) require students to take at 
least
 12 credits that count toward their stated degree in order to qualify for full-time TAP.

                        Why did I receive a message regarding my TAP award?                    

You received a message regarding your TAP award because one or more of your courses fall within the Elective Classes Not Allowed block in your DegreeWorks audit. Additionally, FACTS indicated one or more of your courses do not meet degree requirements.

                        How can DegreeWorks assist me in determining my course compliance?                    

You received a message regarding your TAP award because one or more of your courses fall within the Elective Classes Not Allowed block in your DegreeWorks audit. Additionally, FACTS indicated one or more of your courses do not meet degree requirements.

                        How can I check to see if my courses meet my degree requirements?                    

 
 

You can check your degree requirements through your DegreeWorks account. DegreeWorks can be accessed via the 
CUNYFirst.

                        What is FACTS?                    

 
 

FACTS is an online tool used to determine your eligibility for state aid including TAP.

For instructions on how to access FACTS 
click here.

                        What steps can I take to prevent future issues with course compliance?                    

 
 

Meet with your academic advisor and check DegreeWorks prior to your course registration 
and
 be sure to select at least 12 credits that satisfy unmet requirements.

At least a week after you’ve registered for your courses check your DegreeWorks account again to ensure that none of your courses fall in the Elective Classes 
Not
 Allowed

                        Can I view my eligibility for TAP using FACTS?                    

 
 

Yes. For instructions on how to access FACTS 
click here.

                        What do I need to do to restore my TAP award?                    

 
 
Make sure that you have filed an 
Intended Major Form
 or a 
Minor
 Form (the class may be compliant with the proper major or minor). 
Tap Compliance form
 is available online on the Registrar’s 
website

                        Must my courses be pre-approved if I am an Ad Hoc major?                    

 
 

If you are an Ad Hoc major, the courses must be pre-approved by the Weissman School of Arts and Sciences.

                        Is there a deadline to declare or change my major or minor?                    

Yes. You have 21 days from the start of classes to declare or change your major or minor.

                        If I add/drop a course, will it affect my course compliance?                    

Yes. Any changes to your registration may affect your course compliance. If you make a change to your registration, we recommend that you check DegreeWorks a few days later to see if any of your courses fall into the Elective Classes Not Allowed category.

                        If I meet course compliance am I guaranteed to receive my TAP award?                    

In addition to meeting course compliance, you must also meet Academic Progress and Program Pursuit requirements. For more information regarding TAP Program Pursuit and Academic Progress, go to https://www.baruch.cuny.edu/financialaid/tap_requirements.htm

                        Why do I need to follow course compliance for TAP?                    

Following TAP course compliance helps you maintain your financial aid and helps with faster progress towards graduation.

                        Can I take courses as a visiting student?                    

Yes, if you are currently enrolled in a degree program at another college or university, have a bachelor degree, or have taken some college courses in the past. If you are a junior or senior in high school you make take courses during the summer sessions.

                        How do I apply?                    

 
 

In general, most students will need to fill out a non-degree application, pay the processing fee, and submit documentation, such as transcripts or permits from home colleges.

Non-Degree Application 
can be found on the 
Office of the Registrar website
.

                        What courses can I take?                    

The schedule of classes is available 
online.
 In all cases, course prerequisites must be met. Course descriptions and prerequisites can be found in the online schedule of classes or in the 
bulletin
 . Non-degree students may register for any course provided there is space available and they have met all prerequisites and/or co-requisites.

                        Are courses transferable?                    

Students receive college credit for courses taken at Baruch College under any status except auditor. Students should check with their home institutions or future home institution regarding acceptance of courses taken at Baruch College.

                        Where do I get course materials, like the syllabus and textbook?                    

You must contact the department for a list of course materials. Departments are listed by discipline under the Baruch College directory at 
baruch.cuny.edu/directory

                        How much does it cost per credit?                    

 
 

Tuition and fees are subject to change. To view current tuition and fees please visit 
www.baruch.cuny.edu/tuition
. Tuitions rates are higher for Out of State (non-New York State) residents. In order to qualify for New York State tuition rates, all new students must file the Residency Form which can be found at 
baruch.cuny.edu/undergrad/residency.htm
.

                        Do I have to satisfy immunization requirements?                    

Students who register for 6 or more credits at Baruch College must satisfy New York State immunization requirements. For more information, check our website at 
baruch.cuny.edu/undergrad/immunization.htm
. Immunization records can be submitted using the 
CUNYfirst Document Upload
 feature.

                        What if I am an international student?                    

 
 

First, your transcript must be translated by an official agency. We will accept a copy of the original. Second, if you do not have a U.S. social security number, please contact the unit at 
visiting.students@baruch.cuny.edu
. If you have questions regarding a VISA please contact the ISSC at www.baruch.cuny.edu/studentaffairs/issc/index.htm .

                        How do I register?                    

After your application is reviewed and approved, you will receive a confirmation email with instructions on how to access the online registration system.

                        Am I eligible for financial aid at Baruch?                    

 
 

You must speak to your home school regarding financial aid for courses on permit at another school.

                        How do I pay my bill?                    

Payments are processed by the Office of the Bursar. For all payment options, please visit the Bursar website at www.baruch.cuny.edu/bursar/payment.htm#inperson.

                        How do I gain access to the building(s)?                    

You must bring a copy of your paid tuition receipt to the ID Center in order to have a Baruch College ID issued to you. Please visit 
www.baruch.cuny.edu/psafety/idcard.htm#students
 for hours.

Office of the Registrar

151 E 25th St #850, New York, NY 10010

646-312-1150
 

Change Contrast

Change Contrast

Standard Contrast

High Contrast