Source: https://enrollmentmanagement.baruch.cuny.edu/financial-aid-services/

Financial Aid Services - Enrollment Management	
 

Skip to content

        Department Links        

Financial Aid Services

Mission Statement

Net Price Calculator

CUNY Code of Conduct

Undergraduate Information

Applying for Financial Aid

Student Eligibility

Transfer Students

College Costs

Student Grants

Student Loans

Alternative/Private Loans

Graduate Information

Alternative/Private Loans

Federal Work-Study

Scholarships

Verification

Satisfactory Academic Progress

Frequently Asked Questions

Contact Us

Financial Aid Services 

Students are required to utilize Financial Aid Services’ 
online services
 to review and complete their financial aid process. Our website contains useful information and links to facilitate the financial aid process. All documents will need to be submitted via our 
online services
.

Our business hours are below (note that they are subject to change):

Monday – Thursday: 9 AM – 5 PM

Baruch College is closed on Fridays during the summer months.

Welcome to Baruch College’s Financial Aid Services! Our website is available for you to learn more about the different types of aid we transact.

                        How Do I Apply for Financial Aid?                    

Eligible
 students should complete the 
Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA)
. Parents of 
dependent
 students will also require an Financial Aid Services (FSA) ID. Assistance is available via 
live chat, email, and telephone
.

Baruch’s federal college code is 007273.

After your FAFSA is completed, you will receive a 
Student Aid Index (SAI)
. Your SAI and your estimated 
Cost of Attendance
 determine your 
need-based awards
.

Baruch College must receive your FAFSA before the end of your enrollment or the respective aid year, whichever is earlier.

                        What Happens Next?                    

If you are an admitted or continuing student, Financial Aid Services will receive your FAFSA within 5-7 business days after it is successfully submitted. Financial Aid Services will contact you with important information related to your federal financial aid at your 
Baruch email
 address.

After the FAFSA is signed, only certain items can be updated under the following conditions:

All applicants whose dependency status changes must update that status and the associated FAFSA information throughout the award year except when the update is caused by a change in the student’s marital status.

All applicants selected by the Department of Education or a school for verification of household size or number in college must update those numbers to be correct as of the date of verification unless the update is due to a change in the student’s marital status.

Submitting Additional Documentation

Please visit our 
Verification
 page to learn more about submitting additional documentation.

View Your Financial Aid Status

Click 
here
 for instructions to view your financial aid status.

Tuition Assistance Program (TAP) and Other New York State Aid

The 
Bursar’s Office
 is in responsible for TAP and other New York State aid programs.

Applying for Direct Loans

For information on applying for a Direct loan:

Undergraduate students: visit the 
Undergraduate Loan
 page

Graduate students: visit the 
Graduate Information
 page

 

                        Policies and Resources                    

Financial Aid Census Date

The Financial Aid Census Date is the point at which a student’s enrollment status is locked for financial aid purposes (e.g., federal aid, scholarships). This is the date Financial Aid Services takes a “snapshot” of students’ enrollment to establish the “official enrollment” for financial aid eligibility. As of this date, credit hours are locked for the term and financial aid is reviewed and adjusted, if necessary, to reflect “official” enrollment.

If you receive a Pell Grant, your Pell Grant payment will be based on the number of credit hours you are enrolled as of the census date. Credits added after the census date cannot be used to increase Pell Grant eligibility.

Athletic Information

As an NCAA Division III institution, Baruch College prohibits athletically related financial aid for all institutionally administered scholarships.

Cohort Default Rate (CDR)

A cohort default rate (CDR) is an accountability metric for US colleges that are eligible for federal Pell Grants and student loans.

Baruch College’s official CDR for 2020 is 
0.0%
. The national average 4-year, public institution CDR is 
0%
.

Return of Federal Aid Policy

Review 
CUNY’s Return of Federal Aid Policy
 page.

 

 

 

                Important Links                

Applying for Financial Aid

Student Eligibility

Selective Service

Additional Information and Resources

CUNY Financial Aid Record Retention Schedule

Financial Aid Services

Baruch College, Financial Aid Services One Bernard Baruch Way, Box H-880 New York, NY 10010-5585

FAScustomerservice@baruch.cuny.edu
 

Change Contrast

Change Contrast

Standard Contrast

High Contrast